# Course syllabus

# Overview

This reading will introduce you to the scope of things you will cover in this Capstone Project course.

This course covers building a capstone project in Django, s**pecifically building an API for the Little Lemon restaurant using the Django REST Framework.** The Capstone project enables you to demonstrate multiple skills from the Certificate by solving an authentic real-world problems. Each module includes a brief recap of, and links to, content that you have covered in previous courses in this program.

To complete this course, you will need back-end developer experience.  Additionally, it always helps to have a can-do attitude!

This course consists of four modules:

# ****Module 1: Starting the project****

This introductory module will give you some general information about the capstone project.

You'll also review the process of setting up your coding environment, tracking your code using Git and working with the Django framework.

The purpose is to guide you through setting up and beginning your work on the project.

By the end of this module, you will have completed the following:

- Compose a back-end application using multiple skills
- Use Django to serve static HTML content
- Commit the project to a Git repository

# Module 2: Project Functionality

The second module of this course begins with a revision of Models. You will revisit the concepts of working with databases and models in Django.

You will set up the MySQL connection, and create the required models for the web application. Then, you will build the menu and table booking APIs using the Django Rest Framework.

# Module 3: ****Security and Testing****

In this module, you'll focus on user authentication and testing the API. You will revisit the concepts to help you secure your app and APIs.

You will add user authentication by setting up user registration, login and logout functionality. Then you will implement the code to secure the table booking API.

Next, you will test your application code using unit testing and test the API endpoints using the Insomnia REST client.

Finally, you will push your commits to GitHub.

By the end of this module, you will have completed the following:

- Set up user registration and authentication
- Test the application with unit tests and Insomnia

# Module 4: Graded assessment

In this module, you will be assessed on the fundamental skills covered as you build the capstone project's functionality.

You'll have a chance to compare your code and your designs with your peers via a peer review and you'll have the opportunity to work through a solution to some of the most challenging parts of the capstone project.

At the end of this module, you'll complete a graded assessment, reflect on your learning and be guided to the next steps in your coding journey.