# Templates

In this video, you will learn about templates in Django and how to use them to generate dynamic content.

## ****Django Template Engine and Language****

Templates in Django are text-based documents or Python strings that are marked up using the Django Template Language (DTL). They consist of two types of content:

- Static: The HTML that does not change on the web page
- Template Language: The syntax that allows you to insert dynamic data

The static content defines the structure and layout of the page, while the view using the **`render`** function handles the processing of the dynamic content. The **`render`** function takes three parameters: **`request`**, **`path`**, and a dictionary of variables.

DTL consists of constructs such as variables, tags, filters, and comments. Each construct has a specific syntax that helps Django understand the code logic. 

Django provides an API for loading and rendering templates, and you can configure the template engine inside the **`settings.py`** file.

## ****Code Reuse with Template Inheritance****

- Django also helps in code reuse through template inheritance.
- Template inheritance allows developers to build a base template containing the expected HTML elements of your site and defines blocks that child templates can override.
- This code reusability helps in saving developers time and effort and follows the principle of DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself).

For example, you can create a base template containing the HTML code for your site's head, body, and main sections. Then, in a child web page, you inherit the base template and place the specific content of the page. It's a standard best practice to place template files inside a **`templates`** folder.

## Conclusion

In this video, you learned about using templates in Django, the Django Template Engine and Language, and code reuse with template inheritance. Templates are a vast topic in Django, and you will continue to learn more about them in the remainder of this lesson.