# Course Syllabus

# Introduction

- This course is an introduction to databases and is designed for those who have no previous database or coding experience.
- The course aims to provide an overview of the basics of databases, data, and the SQL language used to interact with them.
- It also covers the different types of career roles available for database engineers, and tips for how to take the course successfully.

# Module 1: Introduction to databases and SQL

- In this module, students will receive an introduction to databases and data, and how they work.
- They will also learn about SQL (Structured Query Language) and the basic structure of databases.

# Module 2: CRUD operations

- In this module, students will learn about CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete) operations in a database.
- They will explore SQL data types, and learn how to create, read, update, and delete data using SQL statements.

# Module 3: SQL operators and data sorting/filtering

- In this module, students will learn about SQL operators and how to sort and filter data using clauses such as the Order By, Where, and Select Distinct clauses.

# Module 4: Database design

- In this module, students will learn about database design concepts such as schema and relational database design.
- They will also learn about database normalization and the different types of normal form.

# Module 5: Recap and review

- In the final module, students will have an opportunity to review what they have learned, identify their strengths, and target topics that they would like to revisit in the course.