# Updating data

# Introduction

When working with databases, there may be instances where you need to update data in an existing table. In this example, we will look at how to update data in a table called "student table" that contains information about students in a college. The table includes the following pieces of information on each student: ID, first name, last name, home address, college address, contact number and department.

# The Update Syntax

To update data in a table, you will need to use the update clause followed by the name of the table you want to update. Then, you will use the set clause followed by the names of the columns you want to update and their new values. For example, if you want to update the home address and contact number of a student with an ID of three, the statement would look like this:

```sql
UPDATE student_table
SET home_address = '123 Main St', contact_number = '555-555-5555'
WHERE ID = 3;
```

In this example, I am updating the home address and contact number for the student with an ID of 3. **It's important to note that the columns you want to update must have the same datatype, otherwise an error message will appear.** Also, It's also important to include the WHERE clause to identify the exact record you want to update.

# Updating Data for Multiple Records

The update syntax can also be used to update data for multiple records at once. For example, if the college's engineering department has moved to a new location on campus and you need to update the address for all engineering students, you can use the following statement:

```sql
UPDATE student_table
SET college_address = "Harper Building"
WHERE department = "engineering";
```

By running this statement, the college_address of all students in the engineering department will be updated to 'Harper Building'.

It's important to note that the update statement also allows you to update multiple columns at once. For example, to update both the home_address and contact_number columns for a specific student, you can use the following statement:

```sql
UPDATE student_table
SET home_address = "New Address", contact_number = "new_number"
WHERE ID = 3;
```

- This statement uses the same structure as the previous example, but with two column value pairings separated by a comma, in this case home_address = 'New Address' and contact_number = 'New Number' .
- By running this statement, the home_address and contact_number of student with ID 3 will be updated with the provided values.

# Conclusion

In short, the update statement is a powerful tool that allows you to make changes to multiple records at once and update multiple columns with one statement. This can save a lot of time and effort when managing a large database, and it is especially useful when working with data that is frequently updated.

If you are trying to update large data sets its better to use join clauses as that will make sure the performance is optimal and the data is updated fastly and accurately.