# Django Admin

# Introduction

- Django provides a convenient way to manage the data of your web application by automatically creating a unified admin interface.
- The Django admin interface directly links to the models in the project and allows site administrators to add, edit, and delete content.
- It is not intended to be used by site visitors, but only by site managers to perform administrative tasks such as creating and managing users, controlling access permission, and forming user groups.

# Activating Django Admin

- Django admin is enabled by default when you run the start project command in Django.
- The Django admin depends on the django.contrib.admin app, which can be found in the installed app section of the settings.py file.
- To access the admin interface, you first need to create an admin user with the necessary credentials.

# Creating an Admin user

- To create an admin user, run the command

```python
python3 manage.py createsuperuser.
```

- Enter the username, email, and password, and if necessary, a stronger password.

# Using the Django Admin

- After logging in, the Django administration page loads with a basic interface.
- You can view the groups and users, and there is already a sample model named reservations.
- You can add, modify, and delete entries of the reservations data using the form.
- You can also change the username, password, personal information, and assign specific permissions to the user.
- The history of the user and the changes they have made can also be viewed.

# Conclusion

- Django admin panel is a convenient tool to manage the data and administrative tasks of your web application.
- It provides an easy-to-use interface that saves a lot of time for the developer and can be modified inside the project and model.