# Functions

Have you ever noticed how a washing machine runs the same set of instructions every time you turn on a dial or press a button? Functions in JavaScript work similarly, allowing you to group a set of related actions under a single label and run them as many times as you want.

# Understanding the DRY Principle

One of the basic principles of programming is the acronym DRY, which stands for "Don't Repeat Yourself." Functions allow you to avoid repetition and take several lines of code that perform a set of related actions and group them together under a single label.

# Declaring a Function

To declare a function in your code, you'll use the keyword **`function`**, followed by a space and the name of the function. 

You can name the function anything you want. After the function name, place a left and right parenthesis, and then a left and right curly brace to complete the function. The code you want to execute will be placed in between the curly braces and is known as the body of the function.

```jsx
function addTwoNums() {
  var a = 10;
  var b = 20;
  var c = a + b;
  console.log(c);
}
```

It's important to note that declaring a function on its own does not execute the code. You'll need to call or invoke the function to run the code inside the function's body.

# Calling a function

To run the code inside a function, you'll need to call or invoke the function by typing the function name followed by opening and closing parentheses. To execute the code inside the function's body, you'll need to call the function.

```jsx
addTwoNums(); // Output: 30
```

# ****Using Values with Functions****

One major advantage of functions is the use of values. The example above uses fixed values for **`a`** and **`b`**, but you can use any values you want. To make a function more flexible, you can pass values to the function. These values are known as function parameters and are placed inside the function definition. The values passed to the function are called arguments.

```jsx
function addTwoNums(a, b) {
  var c = a + b;
  console.log(c);
}

addTwoNums(30, 40); // Output: 70
addTwoNums(50, 60); // Output: 110
```

Function parameters act as variable names and allow you to set changeable values each time you call the function. By passing values as arguments to a function, you can call the function as many times as you want and as long as you send it two values, it will add them together and output the result.

# Conclusion

You now know the basics of functions in JavaScript, including the DRY principle, how to declare a function, how to call a function, and how to use values with functions. Working with functions is a common task in day-to-day development and is an essential skill for a developer to master as they help you write more efficient and reusable code.