# HTTP Requests

# Introduction

Have you ever noticed the lock icon beside the URL in your web browser? This means that HTTPS, the secure version of HTTP, is being used. In this article, we will explore the basics of HTTP, a core operational protocol of the world wide web.

# HTTP Overview

HTTP stands for **Hypertext Transfer Protocol.** It is a protocol used to transfer web resources such as HTML documents, images, styles, and other files. HTTP is a request-response based protocol, where a web browser or client sends an HTTP request to a server and the web server sends the HTTP response back to the browser.

# HTTP Request

A HTTP request consists of the following components:

## Method

Describes the type of action that the client wants to perform and communicates it to the server. Common methods include GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE.

- GET: Retrieves information from the server
- POST: Sends data to the server
- PUT: Updates existing resources on the web server
- DELETE: Removes resources from the web server

## Path

The location of the resource on the web server

## Version

Indicates the version of the HTTP protocol being used

## Headers

Additional information about the request and the client that is making the request, such as the server name, the server port, the request method type, and the content type

Additionally, some request methods may include a body of content.

# HTTP Response

HTTP responses follow a similar format to requests and include the following components:

- Headers: Additional information about the response, such as the HTTP status code and status message.
- Optional message body: Consisting of the response content, such as the HTML document, the image file, and so forth.

HTTP status codes, which are contained within the header, indicate if the HTTP request has successfully completed. These codes are in the range of 100-599 and are grouped by purpose:

- Informational (100-199)
- Successful (200-299)
- Redirection (300-399)
- Client error (400-499)
- Server error (500-599)

Examples of status codes include:

- 404 error not found
- 500 errors server not responding

These HTTP status codes are encountered daily during web browsing, with successful responses indicating that the request was successfully processed by the web server, such as the common response code 200 OK.

In conclusion, HTTP is the foundation of the web and by understanding the basics of the protocol, you can better understand how your web browser communicates with web servers and accesses the resources you are requesting.